Another build tool that's often used for building Java projects is Gradle.
In this clip, I'll show you how you can call schemagen in a Gradle project.
Gradle works in a different way than Maven.
Instead of having a fixed build lifecycle consisting of phases like Maven,
it's task-oriented.
When you build a project using Gradle, it's going to run a series of tasks.
Each task can be dependent on other tasks,
which means that if you want to run some Task A that depends on Tasks B and C,
then Gradle will have to run Tasks B and C before it runs Task A.
When you build your project,
Gradle is going to gather all the tasks that need to be executed,
and determines the order by working out the dependencies between the tasks.
You configure a Gradle project by providing a file named build.
gradle.
In this file,
you specify the tasks that you want to be executed and what
the dependencies between the tasks are.
The build.
gradle file is actually a file written in the Groovy programming language,
or more specifically, in a domain-specific language based on Groovy.
Gradle tasks can be provided either by plugins,
similar to Maven, or by defining the tasks yourself in Groovy in the build.
gradle file.
On the one hand, because Gradle doesn't have a fixed lifecycle like Maven,
it's more flexible and gives you more precise control over the build process.
But on the other hand, because the build.
gradle file is not a declarative specification of the
project like the Maven POM file,
it can be harder to understand the structure of a Gradle project.
If you want to learn more about Gradle,
then you can follow the Pluralsight course,
Gradle Fundamentals by Kevin Jones.
You can find Gradle on the web at gradle.
org.
Let's take a look at example ps-jaxb-32-gradle-schemagen.
This example does the same as the Maven schemagen example,
but it, of course, uses Gradle instead of Maven.
Just like in the Maven schemagen example,
we have our domain model classes in the package com.
jesperdj.
jaxb.
domain,
and we want to use schemagen via Gradle to generate the file purchaseOrder.
xsd.
Let's look at the build.
gradle file to see how this is configured.
Similar to Maven,
we need a plugin to provide the tasks to work with the JAXB tools.
Also like Maven, there are several plugins available from different parties.
I've used a plugin here from Intershop Communications AG,
which provides what we need for this example.
For running schemagen, the plugin provides a jaxb.
schemaGen task.
To use this task, we create an example configuration.
In this configuration,
we specify where the Java source files are that we want schemagen to use for
generating the XSD by setting the Java files property.
We'll also specify a namespaceconfigs property,
which is similar to the transformSchema configuration setting
that we used in the Maven schemagen example.
Here we specify that the schema for our example namespace
should be written to a file named purchaseOrder.
xsd.
Then there are two more things to add.
First I'm configuring sourceSets.
main to include the directory that contains the generated XSD
file so that the generated XSD is packaged into the JAR file
along with the compiled classes.
Finally,
I'll add a few lines to make the JavaCompile task dependent on the jaxb task.
By doing this,
Gradle will automatically call the jaxb task to generate the
XSD before it compiles the Java classes.
We can now let Gradle build the project by using the command gradle clean build.
The JAR file is written into the directory build/libs.
When we look at what's in the JAR file, we see that,
indeed, the generated file purchaseOrder.
xsd is in there.
Just like with the Maven examples,
this is just a starting point to show you the basic idea of how
you can run schemagen in a Gradle project.
The plugin has many more possibilities than what I've shown you in this example.
You can find documentation and more information about the plugin
that we've used here on the following web page. This link is also included in the readme file that's included with example 32.